# MDS
The amount of data we produce every day is truly overwhelming. However, that pace is only accelerating with the growth of modern societies. And with the lack of computerized system, this can present a problem, as we discovered that most of the hospitals use pen and paper to record their data in paper registries. Which is full of human error, that can result in inconsistent, corrupted and redundant data. We had to turn to big data technologies to be able to handle the amount of this data, which gave us the ability to organize and arrange unstructured data. So our first step was to search for datasets to get the required data, And asked for medical assistance from some doctors to get accurate medical data about diseases and their causes. After collecting those datasets, we started to use reverse engineering to create a relational database schema that can contain those datasets. Based on the schema, we started to fill those tables with the gathered data using PL/SQL without redundancy. Using this database, we created a warehouse that contains records of number of cases for each disease around the USA; those records exceeded 519 million records. Then the warehouse was divided into data marts so that to be used in Oracle Business Intelligence, where we generated reports that reveals hidden patterns and problems that lay under this tremendous amount of data. The problem of big unorganized healthcare data can be eliminated. However, it will take –as we saw- a long time process, money, and a combined effort on the part of many people in government organization.
